README.md, before:

# DataTorrent Documentation

DataTorrent documentation repository for content available on http://docs.datatorrent.com/

Documentation is written in [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) format and statically generated into HTML using [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/).  All documentation is located in the [docs](docs) directory, and [mkdocs.yml](mkdocs.yml) file describes the navigation structure of the published documentation.

## Authoring

New pages can be added under [docs](docs) or related sub-category, and a reference to the new page must be added to the [mkdocs.yml](mkdocs.yml) file to make it available in the navigation.  Embedded images are typically added to images folder at the same level as the new page.

When creating or editing pages, it can be useful to see the live results, and how the documents will appear when published.  Live preview feature is available by running the following command at the root of the repository:

```bash
mkdocs serve
```

For additional details see [writing your docs](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/) guide.

## Site Configuration

Guides on applying site-wide [configuration](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/) and [themeing](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/styling-your-docs/) are available on the MkDocs site.

## Hosting

Currently docs.datatorrent.com is hosted on Github Pages.  The deployment requires that a custom [CNAME](docs/CNAME) be present at docs level, and DNS entry for docs.datatorrent.com point to datatorrent.github.io.

## Deployment

**NOTE** Fix to replace "Sorry, page not found" by "Searching..." text while search is running was added with https://github.com/mkdocs/mkdocs/pull/860.  This was already merged into master of mkdocs on March 4th, but latest available version is 0.15.3, which was built on Feb 8th.  Until this fix is available in the next official release following steps should be used to create a custom build of mkdocs:

```bash
sudo pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/mkdocs/mkdocs.git
```

Deployment is done from master branch of the repository by executing the following command:

```bash
mkdocs gh-deploy --clean
```

This results in all the documentation under [docs](docs) being statically generated into HTML files and deployed as top level in [gh-pages](https://github.com/DataTorrent/docs/tree/gh-pages) branch.  For more details on how this is done see [MkDocs - Deploying Github Pages](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/deploying-your-docs/#github-pages).

Commit message:

Updating docs README to reflect latest release of mkdocs v0.16.1

README.md, after:

# DataTorrent Documentation

DataTorrent documentation repository for content available on http://docs.datatorrent.com/

Documentation is written in [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) format and statically generated into HTML using [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/).  All documentation is located in the [docs](docs) directory, and [mkdocs.yml](mkdocs.yml) file describes the navigation structure of the published documentation.

## Authoring

Start by installing mkdocs using Python package manager, pip.  For additional installation questions see http://www.mkdocs.org/

```bash
pip install mkdocs
```

New pages can be added under [docs](docs) or related sub-category, and a reference to the new page must be added to the [mkdocs.yml](mkdocs.yml) file to make it available in the navigation.  Embedded images are typically added to images folder at the same level as the new page.

When creating or editing pages, it can be useful to see the live results, and how the documents will appear when published.  Live preview feature is available by running the following command at the root of the repository:

```bash
mkdocs serve
```

For additional details see [writing your docs](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/) guide.

## Site Configuration

Guides on applying site-wide [configuration](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/) and [themeing](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/styling-your-docs/) are available on the MkDocs site.

## Hosting

Currently docs.datatorrent.com is hosted on Github Pages.  The deployment requires that a custom [CNAME](docs/CNAME) be present at docs level, and DNS entry for docs.datatorrent.com point to datatorrent.github.io.

## Deployment

**NOTE** Please make sure to use mkdocs v0.16.0 or later by running `mkdocs --version`.  If you have an older version of mkdocs installed upgrade with:

```bash
sudo pip install --upgrade mkdocs
```

Deployment is done from master branch of the repository by executing the following command:

```bash
mkdocs gh-deploy --clean
```

This results in all the documentation under [docs](docs) being statically generated into HTML files and deployed as top level in [gh-pages](https://github.com/DataTorrent/docs/tree/gh-pages) branch.  For more details on how this is done see [MkDocs - Deploying Github Pages](http://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/deploying-your-docs/#github-pages).
