docs/create.md, before:

Creating Applications
=====================

Get started quickly by following the [Beginner's Guide](/beginner) and create your first Apache Apex application today!



Application Development Tutorials
=================================

Explore Apache Apex application development with one of the tutorial applications below.


* **[Top N Words](tutorials/topnwords.md)** is a complete guide to writing your first Apache Apex application using *Java* or *dtAssemble*

    [![TopNWords Preview](tutorials/images/topnwords/image26.png)](tutorials/topnwords.md)

* [Sales Dimensions](tutorials/salesdimensions.md) is an introduction to assembling and visualizing sales analytics application with *dtAssemble*

    [![Sales Dimensions Preview](tutorials/images/sales_dimensions/preview.png)](tutorials/salesdimensions.md)



Advanced Topics
===============


- **[Application Development](application_development.md)** - comprehensive guide to developing Apache Apex applications
- **[Application Packaging](application_packages.md)** - creating application packages, changing settings, and launching application packages
- **[Operator Development](operator_development.md)** - creating new operators for Apache Apex applications
- **[dtGateway REST API](dtgateway_api.md)** - complete listing of all services offered by dtGateway

Commit message:

SPOI-9342 Add page for matured operator library

docs/create.md, after:

Creating Applications
=====================

Here are a few links to get you started:

- [Beginner's Guide](/beginner) An introductory guide that shows you how to generate a new
  ready-to-run Apex application using the maven archetype and a good deal of the application
  landscape at an introductory level.

- [Operator Development](/operator_development)

- [Operator Library](/library_operators)

- [Demo Videos](/demo_videos)



Application Development Tutorials
=================================

Explore Apache Apex application development with one of the tutorial applications below.


* **[Top N Words](tutorials/topnwords.md)** is a complete guide to writing your first Apache Apex application using *Java* or *dtAssemble*

    [![TopNWords Preview](tutorials/images/topnwords/image26.png)](tutorials/topnwords.md)

* [Sales Dimensions](tutorials/salesdimensions.md) is an introduction to assembling and visualizing sales analytics application with *dtAssemble*

    [![Sales Dimensions Preview](tutorials/images/sales_dimensions/preview.png)](tutorials/salesdimensions.md)



Advanced Topics
===============


- **[Application Development](application_development.md)** - comprehensive guide to developing Apache Apex applications
- **[Application Packaging](application_packages.md)** - creating application packages, changing settings, and launching application packages
- **[Operator Development](operator_development.md)** - creating new operators for Apache Apex applications
- **[dtGateway REST API](dtgateway_api.md)** - complete listing of all services offered by dtGateway
